A log analyzer, is a software tool or application used to analyze and interpret log files generated by various systems, servers, or applications.

In this lab, you will use the `CloudVyzor LogPad` which is an online log viewer and analyzer tool which can help to review logs online, understand the structure, and collaborate on them instantly.

## Prepare a sample file.
Use `apache_sample_log.txt` or any other log file.

## Launch the CloudVysor and upload the log file

## https://cloudvyzor.com

On the homepage of CloudVysor, there should be a tile which mentions `Drop .zip or .gz or text file with logs here or Browse for upload`.

Upload the log file.

## Understand the structure of an HTTP log

consider the first line:
```
136.145.136.38 - - [15/Nov/2018:18:21:30 +0000] “GET / HTTP/1.1” 200 553 “-“ “Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.14; rv:63.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/63.0”
```

1. 136.145.136.38 - IP Address
2. Hyphen (“-“) The hyphen is a placeholder that represents the identity of the client.
3. Hyphen (“-“) Similar to the previous hyphen, this one represents the user identity.
4. [15/Nov/2018:18:21:30 +0000] - Date and Time
5. GET / HTTP/1.1 - Request - information about the specific HTTP request made by the client.
6. 200 - Status Code -  HTTP status code returned by the server for this request.
7. 553 - Size. Field represents the size, in bytes, of the response sent by the server for this request.
8. Hyphen (“-“) Similar to the previous hyphens, this one represents the referrer field.
9. Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.14; rv:63.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/63.0 - User-Agent

## Analyze the Logs
It's possible to  use specific queries to analyze the data, and CloudVyzor has the `Supported Queries` section, which has a list of template queries that can be used for searching and analyzing the data.

There are many Supported Queries, lets see a few of them with examples:
- Simple term: `term` - This query can be used when we want to search for a specific word / term in the log file. Type the term "Mozilla" in the search bar and see results.

- Excluded term: `-term` - This query can be used when we want to search by omitting a specific word / term in the log file. Type the term "-Firefox" in the search bar and see results.

- Several terms: `term1 term2` - This query can be used when two terms together need to be searched in the log file. Lets search for the occurences of “Mozilla” “iPhone” in the log file.

- Full phrase: `“phrase in quotes”` - This query can be used when it needs to search for a particular phrase in the log file. Type `" 500 "` to see how many 500 error codes exist in the log file.

- Excluded phrase: `-“excluded phrase”` - This query can be used when we need to search by omitting a particular phrase in the log file. Type `-"200 553"` in the search bar to omit the error code 200 and the size 553.

- `date=<date>` - This query can be used when we need to search for logs on a specific date. Type `date=2018-11-16` in the sarch bar to see all logs for the specific date.

- Timestamps - This query can be used when we need to search for logs at specific timestamps.

Examples queries for timestamps:

`timestamp>=”2015-01-10 12:10:12.226”`

`timestamp>”2015-01-10 12:10:12”`

`timestamp<=”2018-11-16”`

`timestamp<2018-11-18`


## Share the search output to collaborate and work

Copy the current state of the search by clicking the `Copy Current State` tab.

You can paste the copied URL into new browser - this will give the same output.